41. First Missing Positive

## *Before looking any further, if you haven't done so, please take a look at Hint 1 and see if you can solve it.*

# Approach
<!-- Describe your approach to solving the problem. -->
Two key observations:
1. If the smallest positive number in the array (of course, we don't consider about negative numbers or 0) is greater than 1, our answer will just be 1.
2. If some of the smallest numbers starting from 1 does exist in the array, we need to increase our answer by 1 and see if it exists in the array. If a potential answer does not appear in the array, it will be our answer. **However, the largest answer we can have will be `n+1`**, which is when every smallest positive numbers appears in the array (`[1, 2, ..., n-1, n]`). *Our answer is always within `[1, n+1]`.*

Knowing these, this problem would've been easy if we can are given non-constant space: We can just maintain a HashSet and then check if any number from `1` to `n+1` does not exist in the array.

However, as Hint 1 points out, it happens that we can achieve this in O(1) if we turn the `nums` array into a "HashSet" by rearranging the values slightly. 

The idea is to use the indices of the array as the key of the HashSet. We loop through the array and place any element with a value within the range `[1, n+1]` to its corresponding index on the array. E.g., if we have `nums[i] = 3`, we swap it with `nums[2]` (indicies start at 0 but positive numbers start at 1). After performing such swapping for every element until we can't anymore, the resulting array is a HashSet-like structure where we know if `a` exists if `nums[a-1] == a`.

Other notes:
During the swapping, we only swap when the numbers are within the range `[1, n+1]`. Neither do we swap negative numbers or duplicate numbers. See comments in the code for details.

# Complexity
- Time complexity:
<!-- Add your time complexity here, e.g. $$O(n)$$ -->
$$O(N)$$
- Space complexity:
<!-- Add your space complexity here, e.g. $$O(n)$$ -->
$$O(1)$$
# Code
```
class Solution {
public:
    int firstMissingPositive(vector<int>& nums) {
        int n = nums.size();
        for(int i = 0 ; i < n; i++){
            // don't swap if the value is out of bounds, or is a duplicate
            while(!(nums[i] <= 0 || nums[i] > n || nums[nums[i]-1] == nums[i])){
                swap(nums[i], nums[nums[i]-1]);
            }
        }

        // check for the smallest positive number missing
        for(int i = 0; i < n; i++){
            if(nums[i] != i+1)
                return i+1;
        }
        // if not, the answer has to be n+1
        return n+1;
    }
};
```