452. Minimum Number of Arrows to Burst Balloons

# Approach
<!-- Describe your approach to solving the problem. -->
Interestingly, I found this problem very similar to the daily problem yesterday, which is about merging intervals. I recommend check my explanation here and focus on the 3 main ways that two intervals overlap: https://leetcode.com/problems/insert-interval/solutions/4885981/c-one-complete-pass-detailed-explanation/

We can think of the balloons' width/diameter as intervals on the x-axis. The minimum number of arrows we have to use is essentially the number of distinct "non-overlapping" intervals we have at the end. 

However, it is important that they are not really "non-overlapping", because we can only throw the arrow at one intersection point on an interval. For cases like:
```
|______________________|
  |______________________|
      |_____| |____|      
        ^       ^
        |       |
```
Even though they all "overlap" in the whole group, it would require two arrows to pop all of them as shown above.

We can start to see a greedy solution here based on the pattern. First we sort all intervals(balloons) based on starting x. Then while looping over the intervals and merging intersecting intervals (when its `start` happens before the previous's `end`), we maintain an `interval of interest` `[st, en]`, where if we throw an arrow in this region, all the previous merged intervals would be popped. Now, whenever we check if the next interval should be merged, we want to instead check if its `start` falls between the `[st, en]`. We will accordingly update the range by shrinking `[st, en]` everytime we merge a new interval. Whenever an interval no longer overlaps, we increment `ans` by 1 and reset `[st, en]` and move on.

# Complexity
- Time complexity:
<!-- Add your time complexity here, e.g. $$O(n)$$ -->
$$O(N)$$
- Space complexity:
<!-- Add your space complexity here, e.g. $$O(n)$$ -->
$$O(1)$$
# Code
```
class Solution {
public:
    int findMinArrowShots(vector<vector<int>>& points) {
        sort(points.begin(), points.end());
        int ans = 1;
        // interval of interest
        int st = points[0][0], en= points[0][1];
        for(int i = 1 ; i < points.size(); i++){
            int a = points[i][0], b = points[i][1];
            
            // check if interval overlaps
            if(a <= en){
                st = max(a, st);
                en = min(b, en);
            }else{
                // does not overlap, prepare to use another arrow
                st = a;
                en = b;
                ans++;
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```