621. Task Scheduler

# Intuition
<!-- Describe your first thoughts on how to solve this problem. -->
This problem really made me struggle: I was on the verge of figuring everything out except a key observation...

# Approach
<!-- Describe your approach to solving the problem. -->
Bruteforcing and treating this problem as a simulation problem is intuitive, but not elegant.

So a few key observations to arrive at a simple clever solution:
1. Tasks are essentially scheduled at certain spacing `n`: `A??A??A??A`, where `?` represents empty spaces to fill in. To minimize total number of intervals, we need to use these idle spaces wisely. Notice that we can put other tasks in these idle spaces in a similar order while still maintaining `n` spacings: `AB?AB?AB?A`. Therefore idle spaces are not wasted.
2. How many idle spaces will there be? We only need to wait in idle when we need to perform the next task. So the task with the highest frequency will structure the idle spacings because it likely needs to wait for its previous self to finish at the end before executing the next one, when no other tasks are left.
- This is the part I did not initially think of: What if there are more remaining tasks than there are idle spaces created? Do we need to start a new sequences of `B??B??B...`? The answer is no. **Idle spaces and other tasks that are performed between two occurance of the same task essentially can be shared!** E.g. We start with `ABC|ABC|ABC`. If we have 2 more tasks `DD` to be performed, we can simply insert it in between the groups rather than append them at the end, which would waste idle spaces: `ABCD|ABCD|ABC`. 

Therefore, knowing that every tasks will need 1 interval to be executed (`tasks.size()` intervals total), we fill in as much idle places created by the task with highest frequency. If there are still idle places, we add them to answers. If there are more leftover tasks, we simply insert them in between groups as mentioned in 3 without needing any idle spaces.

# Complexity
- Time complexity:
<!-- Add your time complexity here, e.g. $$O(n)$$ -->
$$O(N)$$. There is a sorting on the `freq` array with size 26, although can be avoided if keep tracks of `maxCnt` during the first pass of the array.
- Space complexity:
<!-- Add your space complexity here, e.g. $$O(n)$$ -->
$$O(1)$$
# Code
```
class Solution {
public:
    int leastInterval(vector<char>& tasks, int n) {
        vector<int> freq (26, 0);
        for(auto c : tasks){
            freq[c-'A']++;
        }
        sort(freq.begin(), freq.end());
        int maxCnt = 1;
        for(int i = 24; i >= 0; i--){
            if(freq[i] == freq[25]) maxCnt++;
            else break;
        }

        int maxFreq = freq[25];
        int otherTasks = tasks.size()-maxFreq*maxCnt;
        int idle = max(0, (maxFreq-1)*(n - maxCnt+1) - otherTasks);
        return tasks.size() + idle;
    }
};
```