930. Binary Subarrays With Sum

# Approach
<!-- Describe your approach to solving the problem. -->

Ideas:
1. **Bruteforce**: Iterate through all possible subarrays and check if sums satisfies. Use prefix sum to obtain subarray sums quickly. But total time is still $$O(N)$$.
2. **HashTable**: This is essentially an optimized and smarter way of the bruteforce solution. While looping over the array in one pass, we maintain a HashMap with the frequency of prefix sums appeared so far (so the key is the prefix sums, value is its frequency). We also keep track of the prefix sum up to our current element. Then, at every point on the array, we look into the HashMap for the number of prefix sums before our current index that will result in the `goal` when `current_prefix_sum - previous_prefix_sum = goal`. The frequency of the `previous_prefix_sum` tells us exactly how many different subarrays we can get at this current point on the array.
3. **Sliding Window (Two Pointers)**: @lee's briliant sliding window solutions with the two pointers have been well-known. But I will throw some detailed explanations here:

Coming up with the idea to use **sliding window** to solve this problem is probably not that hard--the tricky part is how to implement it efficiently. 
Sliding window does its task by going over the array in one pass. The confusing part is, how does it possibly take care of all possible subarrays along the way? 

The key observation is, if we put a window on the array, the **sum** of numbers in the window is **only** going to **increase** if we extend the window to the right, and **only** **decrease** if we shrink the window from the left. 
`Note:
Whenever we notice such monotonous (1-directional effect on the value, which is sum in this case), we can use two pointers as the sliding windows here. `

Keeping this property in mind, we can essentially slide the window to the right and easily maintain the sum inside to satisfy the condition.

The elegant final part is (@lee), we can easily tackle a broader problem: How many subarrays have sums **at most** `goal`? Take a look at the solution code below, and pay attention to the `atMost` function. We can easily do a sliding window while making sure the sum **does not exceed** `goal`. And to consider all such possible subarrays, on every element in the array, we treat that element as the fixed right end of the current window. We simply then count how many smaller subarrays with the same right end there are, which is `r - l + 1`. After looping over all elements in the array, we essentially have considered all possible subarrays satisfying the conditions.

Now with this `atMost` function, our answer to this problem can be solved by `atMost(goal) - atMost(goal-1)`. Or more formally: `exactly k = atMost(k) - atMost (k-1)` 


# Solution 1 (HashMap)
- Time complexity:
<!-- Add your time complexity here, e.g. $$O(n)$$ -->
$$O(N)$$
- Space complexity:
<!-- Add your space complexity here, e.g. $$O(n)$$ -->
$$O(N)$$
```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int numSubarraysWithSum(vector<int>& nums, int goal) {
        unordered_map<int, int> map;
        map[0] = 1;
        int ans = 0;
        int psum = 0;
        for(auto a : nums){
            psum += a;
            ans += map[psum - goal];
            map[psum]++;
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```

# Solution 2 (Sliding Window Two Pointers)
- Time complexity:
<!-- Add your time complexity here, e.g. $$O(n)$$ -->
$$O(N)$$
- Space complexity:
<!-- Add your space complexity here, e.g. $$O(n)$$ -->
$$O(1)$$
```
class Solution {
public:
    int numSubarraysWithSum(vector<int>& nums, int goal) {
        return atMost(nums, goal) - atMost(nums,goal-1);
    }
    int atMost(vector<int>& nums, int goal){
        if(goal < 0) return 0;
        int psum = 0;
        int l = 0;
        int ans = 0;
        for(int r = 0 ; r < nums.size(); r++){
            psum += nums[r];
            // we only consider psum at a value at most goal
            // Therefore, shrink the window once psum exceeds goal
            while(psum > goal){
                psum -= nums[l];
                l++;
            }
            // add all windows with the right end fixed
            ans += r - l + 1;
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```