# Problem: [1171. Remove Zero Sum Consecutive Nodes from Linked List](https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-zero-sum-consecutive-nodes-from-linked-list/description/)

# Difficulty: <span style = "color:orange">Medium</span>

# Intuition
<!-- Describe your first thoughts on how to solve this problem. -->
A more straightforward version of this problem is in arrays and we are asked to find subarrays with 0 sum. For such task, a technique combining prefix sum and HashTable is used effectively. And it turns out the fact that this is in a LinkedList does not matter! 
# Approach
<!-- Describe your approach to solving the problem. -->
To find 0 sum subarrays, we can compute the prefix sum of up to each element by traversing in forward order. Normally, we can use prefix sum to easily find static range sum in $$O(1)$$. In this case, we are finding range sum of 0, which means that our `prefix[b] - prefix[a] = 0`. In other words, we are looking for indices `a` and `b` where the prefix sums are the same:

Original Array: `[1, 2, -3, 3, 1]` 
Prefix Sum: `[0, 1, 3, 0, 3, 4]`

In the above example, between the two places where `3` appears in the prefix sum array is one working 0 sum subarray (original index 2-3). 

Now we can try to implement this idea on the linkedlist and remove the subarray during traversing. When we first traverse over the list to calculate the prefix sum, we can employ a HashMap to constantly record and update the farthest `node` where the same prefix sum value occurs. Thus, when we traverse over the list the second time, we can essentially jump ahead by trying to connect the curent node to the next node with the same prefix sum, which effectively "removes" all 0-sum nodes in between.

Since we are always skipping to the **farthest** node possible, we do not need to worry about updating the prefix sum values after "removing" the nodes in between. And it is possible for such "skipping channels" to overlap (e.g. the two 0s instead of 3s in the above example). But as the problem states, any working final list is accepted.

# Complexity
- Time complexity:
<!-- Add your time complexity here, e.g. $$O(n)$$ -->
$$O(N)$$
- Space complexity:
<!-- Add your space complexity here, e.g. $$O(n)$$ -->
$$O(N)$$
# Code
``` cpp
class Solution {
public:
    ListNode* removeZeroSumSublists(ListNode* head) {
        int pre = 0;
        ListNode* h = new ListNode(0);
        h->next = head;
        unordered_map<int, ListNode*> seen;
        for(auto i = h; i; i = i->next){
            seen[pre += i->val] = i;
        }
        pre = 0;
        for(auto i = h; i; i = i->next){
            // get rid of the sequence in between, including the end, not the start (current i)
            i->next = seen[pre += i->val]->next;
        }
        return h->next;
    }
};
```